Ashmit Bhattarai
bhtri.ashmit@gmail.com
+61452517816
Senior Data Scientist / ML Engineer

Around 6 years of experience as Python Developer and Data Scientist. Experience of working in Startups as Team
Lead, Data Scientist, Substitute Scrum Master, and sometimes a QA Engineer. Can work autonomously or in Cross-functional teams.


WORK EXPERIENCE
Senior Data Scientist
Perceptyx Inc. (Pyx)
12/2017 - 01/2023,
Perceptyx combines employee surveys and people analytics to see whats going on in your organisation.
Temecula, CA, USA
Achievements/Tasks

Design, development, documentation, testing and maintenance of Pyx Sentiment Analysis Engine with 87%+
accuracy on unseen test data. 22% increase in the detection of Sentiments.
Oversee Design, development, documentation, testing, and maintenance of Thematic Extraction Supervised
Engine with 65%+ accuracy on complex Multi-Label Classiﬁcation System and Thematic Extraction
Unsupervised Engine on new Themes Detection. 10% increased Theme Identiﬁcation for Open-Ended
Answers.
Design and deploy Statistical Forecast Models, Predictive models for Employee Insights Analytics and
Benchmarking: Fully eliminated Human-In-The-Loop processes using SnowFlake and ML algorithms.
ML Engineering: Development and deployment of ML and Deep Learning models on Pyx Cloud


Lead Software Developer
ShopGrok
09/2018 - 05/2022,
ShopGrok is a provider of consumer insights and data analytics to the retail and consumer sector
Sydney,Australia
Achievements/Tasks

Design, develop, modify, document, test, implement, and maintain ShopGrok Data Mining and Ingestion
Pipeline for SaaS platform. Scaled up the infrastructure to collect 1+ Million data points daily.
Oversee deployment of Deep Learning E-commerce Product Matching API and micro-services as ShopGrok
APIs as Team Lead. 12% improvement on baseline fuzzy matching.


Freelancer, Python Developer
Upwork Inc.
09/2015 - 09/2018,

Achievements/Tasks
Experience working on 17 different projects with 100% job success rate to gain Top-Rated Freelancer status.
Work with remote teams, excellent communication skills, identify clients' requirements, design
correct solutions and complete deliverables on time.
Worked with SciBase to scrape metadata from Reputed Chemistry Journals and Index them on ElasticSearch
Facebook and Twitter Data Extraction and Sentiment Analysis
Sentiment Analysis of Tweets related to Oil Corporations and its Effect on their Stock Prices


ACHIEVEMENTS
- Commendations in Elite Academic Performance in Session 2 2019, Session 1 2020, Macquire
University; Best Paper in Class, Computing Methods for Research: Aspect Based Sentiment
Analysis of Reviews

- Won Nepal National N-Cell App Camp Hackathon Corporate Category 2014 for theOpinio:
Sentiment Analysis of Brands using Tweets.

- Certiﬁcations: AWS Machine Learning Speciality, AWS Cloud Practioner Certification, Deep Learning Specialization, Practical Data Science in AWS (Courseera)

SKILLS:
Tensorﬂow
Scikit-learn
R
Pytorch
Python
Snowﬂake
Tableau
Alteryx
AWS
GCP
AWS Sagemaker
Statistical Analysis
CI/CD Pipelines
MLOps AWS Athena 
PySpark RESTful APIs OpenAI ChatGPT
Langchain KOR
PineCone
MLFlow, Weights&Biases
Computer Vision
OpenCV
Deep Learning
Docker

Interesting Projects I have built/am building:
- Intent (Semantic) Phrase Extraction and Emotion Classification
- Bi-Directional LSTM model for predicting Bitcoin Price
- ChaptGPT for Job Application Cover Letter Generation using LangChain, KOR and PineCone v2
- ChatGPT for Ecommerce Customer Service Agent
- Deep Learning For Face Detection and Identify Family and Friends vs Unknown Visitors (In Progress)
    -Tools used:
    - HuggingFaceModelHub
    - OpenCV2
    - AWS Batch
    - Pytorch
    - Weights&Biases
    - Amazon Sagemaker
    - Data Version Control (DVC)
    - Github Continious Machine Learning

EDUCATION
Master of Science in Data Science
Macquire University
07/2018 - 06/2020,
Macquire Park, Sydney, Australia (WAM
score of 83.13%)
Bachelors in Computer Engineering
Kathmandu University
08/2011 - 09/2016,
Dhulikhel, Kavre, Nepal


